# Bayesian registration of functional data
*From the group project for the course of Bayesian Statistics at Polimi*

Functional data analysis (FDA) is a sophisticated and powerful branch of statistics that is based on representing a series of data as a function (e.g., time series). FDA provides many robust methods to compute the uncertainty on the measurements and to perform statistical tests on data.

In this project, we approach the problem of functional data *Registration*, i.e., the alignment of landmarks (e.g., a peak) common to all the curves. An example is the growth spurt in children's growth curves, which is common to everybody, but usually takes place at different times.
In particular, we are interested in developing a Bayesian algorithm for functional data registration. The advantage of choosing a Bayesian approach is the possibility of keeping track of the uncertainties and the distribution of our data and parameters.

The registration algorithm is then applied to a dataset of measurements of the angle generated by the knee (sampled at different times) of patients who had an ACL injury during a jump. 
In this case, registration is a key data preprocessing step, since all the curves have the same features (e.g., the angle formed at the beginning of the jump, the angle when the leg is more extended, etc. etc.)  and are followed.
Then the goal of the study is to assess the effectiveness of different treatments (physiotherapy vs. surgery), performing statistical tests on the aligned functional data.

### *Content of the repository*
1) *Import_data.R* : the script contains functions to read data and to prepare the dataset for the analysis.
2) *Auxiliary_Functions.R* : the script contains several functions which performs repetitive tasks (e.g. computation of quantities for the full conditional, evaluation of some functions). In particular you can find the functions implementing the different versions of the Metropolis-Hastings step.
3) *Metropolis_within_Gibbs.R* : in this script the MCMC simulation is performed using a Metropolis-within-Gibbs algorithm. Different choice for the model of the coefficients phi of the warping function can be made inside the script. Depending on the choice of the model for the coefficients, different Metropolis Hasting algorithms are implemented to update their values.
5) *Results_and_Plots.R* : in this script the results produced in 3) are analyzed and the plots of the significant quantities are made.  
